So, we've been centered on 18.3 so far, and we're going to be talking about 19.0.
Some of this stuff has been coming for a long time, and some of this stuff is fairly recent.
So the first thing I'm going to call out is keep an eye out for version 6 of my intermediate
React course.
That should be the first time that I talk about React 19.
I'm imagining that it's going to be out by that point, and if it's not, we'll probably
push the date further so it can be out before I go teach it.
But I just want to really emphasize that what you've learned today, I am confident in asserting
that it will be still useful five years from now, because React doesn't change that quickly.
The core model, which is what I taught you today, doesn't change very much.
So there's no reason to wait to take courses or anything like that.
It's all React at the end of the day.
Most of the stuff that's in React V8 of this course still applies, right?
Most of the modifications here were fairly minor.
So it's about to be out.
They've been talking about it for probably about a year now, and I'm going to say 95%
of what I show you, I'm pretty confident in saying it's going to be unchanged, and there
might be some corners around the edges of maybe some slight API changes or something
like that, but I think the core concepts are going to be the same.
It's in release candidate right now and has been for some time.
So they don't anticipate that it's going to change very much.
One of the things is use client and use server.
You'll notice today I did not talk about these, and I did not want to, because I don't think
it's useful for you today.
React is now being bundled into more of a meta framework, so things like Next.js and
Remix and all of those things, and one of the cool features that those things allow
you is they allow you to say run this component on the server only or run this component on
the browser only.
We were just doing client-side React today, so that was nonsensical for us to talk about,
but this is kind of cool for the future.
Imagine that you can do things like run database queries directly from your React component.
If you're using a server component, you can do that, and it's totally safe.
By the same token, if you're writing Figma, a very client-heavy application, you don't
want that stuff to run in the server.
That doesn't make a lot of sense to render that stuff in the server.
You're going to render that in the browser, so you'd use client on that.
Just to give you an example of what that API looks like, if we go to, I don't know, header
for some whatever reason, you can put up here at the top, use client, and this is now going
to be guaranteed to only run in the client.
I think it works per block as well.
You could do, if we didn't have this, then you can do it here and so on.
There's a bunch of different places you can use that are called directives.
Same thing, you could say use server here.
What's cool about use server in this particular case, it's just going to send down the complete
markup.
It's not going to send down the actual JavaScript to run it.
It's just going to run everything in the server first and then send it down to the client,
which is kind of cool.
I think you can do it with effects and stuff like that.
You can say use effect and use server in here, and then you have a server side effect that
you can run there, which is also kind of interesting as well.
Again, this only applies to meta frameworks like next, remix.
You can build those meta frameworks yourself, but you have to get your hands pretty dirty
with how React works.
One of the things that I found interesting and useful, what happens if I have an API
key that I'm using in a use server component?
All it takes is one developer to go in there and say, oh, I actually need this to run on
the client too and just delete the directive, and all of a sudden you're sending your secret
keys down to your clients.
You're one line away from a data breach, which is very scary.
They have these things called taint unique value and taint object reference.
It says, for these things that are running on the server, I don't care if something tells
you to send this down, never send this down.
That's what the taint unique value and taint object reference do, is they're just saying,
I am putting extra guardrails on this that this will never leak.
I thought that was a cool way of doing that.
Cool.
Any questions about that?
You're just kind of adding a directive of where you want stuff to run, which I thought
was a cool idea.
Something else that, for the longest time we've had to use a thing called React Helmet.
If you want to add stuff to, change the name of the document, here it says Padre Gino's.
If you wanted to change that to order on the order page and contact on the contact page
and stuff like that, you had to use something called React Helmet, which is a library from
the NFL.
It's a fun fact.
You would render something into the helmet and then the helmet would put it in the head
for you.
That's how it would work.
In React 19, they're just building that into React directly.
If you render something like title here, it's just going to automatically put that in the
head for you.
You don't have to do anything special.
It's just like, oh, title.
That goes in the head.
Same thing with links, so adding CSS documents or meta tags or anything like that.
All that stuff that we used to use React Helmet for is all just built into React 19 now.
We talked a little bit about preloading Preconnect earlier in the course.
If you need a more interesting introduction to this, I found this article, which is pretty
cool.
They're called browser hints, and they allow you to say, hey, pre-do all the HTTPS handshakes.
That's what Preconnect is for.
I might need this here in a second, and I want you to go as fast as possible.
Preconnect is like, do the handshake, get ready for the secure connection, but don't
download anything.
Then preload is like, no, go ahead and download this.
It's done through browser hints.
Built into the browser, it's not a particular React kind of thing.
You would do something like this in React, and it's like, hey, I know this is about to
open a text editor, because obviously this is the link, so I click here to open the text
editor.
You hear, it's like, get ahead of the user, download this first, so that when they click
this link, we're immediately ready to go.
Kind of cool, really interesting way of doing a hinting.
The cool thing about this is browsers can ignore it.
If it's in low battery mode or something like that, the browser will just ignore it.
But it doesn't break it.
They'll just have to wait longer.
Web components.
People have been clamoring for this for a long, long time.
They've kind of been possible for a long time, but now that it's kind of gotten first class
support.
Why do you care about this?
I'm not going to encourage you to write directly web components yourself if you're using React.
Just use React.
Why this is actually interesting is for library authors.
For an example, I was talking to an auth company, dscope, if you've heard of them, it's a perfectly
fine auth provider, I quite like them.
They get to build their auth components that you can import into your page once, and then
they get to ship that to Angular, to React, to Vue, and they all just render a web component
at the end of the day.
It all encapsulates the logic, the CSS, the HTML, the JavaScript, and they get to write
it once, and it just works everywhere.
It's awesome for them instead of having to maintain seven different SDKs for seven different
frameworks.
It's awesome for providers and all that kind of stuff that they can ship one component
to multiple libraries.
They finally figured out how to do it really well with React, and so they're finally going
to ship that, which I think is really cool.
More stuff, I linked the stuff here.
You can see that they announced this on April 25th.
It's been some time since they announced all this stuff.
There's more than what I talked about in here, but I think I kind of gave you the highlight.